# A short update on 2019 from the Bachrach-Cox family

We saw off 2018 in Port Fairy in the west of Victoria (on the Great Ocean Road), watching the sunset over a calm beach. We will be seeing off 2019 in Melbourne, but this time transfixed by news of the catastrophic bushfire season. It all started in mid-November - a month earlier than historically typical - and has been burning up pastures, forests and grasslands, as well as houses, livelihoods and a few lives, for six weeks now, already consuming a total area more than 10 times the whole of last year’s fires. This includes irreplaceable national parks across NSW, Queensland and South Australia. Today it reached the northern suburbs of Melbourne, and a region the size of Belgium was evacuated because of fires in eastern Victoria (around Lakes Entrance, where Amy and I along with our friend Carolynne from Perth had a winter break in July). I’m currently at home sheltering from 42C temps, while A&A are at the gym & pool. There is a cool change coming this evening - the temp will drop to 15C overnight. Next week we are supposed to be heading to Kangaroo Island in South Australia - I was there 30 years ago and had been looking for a chance to take the family while we are all still holidaying together - though there have been fires there today also. We had been expecting a cousin of Amy’s to join us from New York, but unfortunately that fell through at the last minute, so it’ll be the three of us along with Kiara who spent last Xmas and New Year with us camping.

So, in more or less reverse order (since I’ve started at the end of the year):

Abby just graduated from secondary school, so the end of an era. She did well enough in her final exams and grades through the year to get an immediate first round offer of a place in the Uni course that she had wanted - Psychology (Hons) at Deakin Uni in Burwood about 10km north of where we live. This has the added option of a minor in Sports and Exercise Science at Deakin’s top ranked facility. However, she has decided not to start until 2021 as she has some travels she wants to go on in 2020 (two cousin’s weddings in UK for starters!). In the short term she is on the checkout at Woolworths in Bentleigh.

In the gap between her finishing exams and results coming out, we drove to Canberra for the national u-22 Ultimate Championship (actually Abby was at the wheel for most of it, finishing up logging her 120 hours needed while on L’s). This was Abby’s 3rd timeplaying for Victoria at u-22s, though her first in the Women’s team - the “Weedy Seadragons” (previous years she played in the mixed team - the “Blue Devils”). The Weedies took Silver in challenging conditions - hot and windy, and smokey at times. And we all got to hang out with our old friend Karen and her partner Stuart, and her kids Emma and Terence, who Abby has known almost her whole life.

Unfortunately, Amy did not see any of the comp as she had a syncope our second night, and was taken by ambulance to hospital, where she was kept for 2.5 days with an ECG monitor attached. The concern was that it was a recurrence of a similar event from 20 months prior. But, as was the case that time, monitoring showed up no attributable cause, except for her chronic low blood pressure which we already knew about. I was able to rescue her in time for the awards ceremony.

Abby’s other Ultimate exploits this year were to represent Vic for the fourth year running in u-18 girls (they got bronze this year, after almost the whole of last year’s gold-winning squad aged out of u-18s), and also playing regularly for Wild M&M&Ms in Division 1 in the weekly Albert Park League. Her original club Bauhaus has reconfigured to focus on Masters, so Abby trialled with the Heads of State club, and got selected for their senior women’s squad. In two weeks time she heads to Sydney to trial for the Australia u-20s team - if she gets a place that’ll mean a trip to Sweden in July for Worlds.

We slotted in a trip to UK in the April school holidays, primarily to see my increasingly frail parents. They are now in a unit in Halesowen only five-minute’s drive from my sister - and of course Sarah and Tim have inevitably been saddled with the key coordination, and increasingly caring, duties. Moving Phillip and Thelma (about two year’s ago now, from their cottage in south Shropshire which was 45 minutes) was several years overdue, and realistically is unlikely to last for much longer. Watch and learn.

Facing life as parents of an adult, is quite a change in role for Amy and me. Not having to time things around school holidays will be welcome of course. We are not currently expecting Abby to actually fly the coop any time soon, but of course that could change any time.

So that’s mostly mechanicals, but wanted to put something together before the year actually ended. Hope yours has been fruitful and happy.

Simon

2019-12-30
