# _Simon & Amy	2000 circular letter_ 

So here’s the deal:  

A year ago we were on the eve of “Wedding II: revenge of the rellies” in New York.  Actually, we had a fantastic day, as did most of the other people there, which included Simon’s parents to provide just a little dilution of the Bachrach/related hordes.  I’d love to be able to point you to photos on my updated album on the web, but disorganisation has gotten the better of me – they’ll get there, but not sure when.  The summary version is that we had a serious Jewish ceremony, led by a wonderful woman rabbi, under a canopy, with words that followed the traditions, but in a translation or interpretation that also respected the participants.  Then we talked and danced and laughed and danced, and generally had the kind of good time that you are supposed to.  We stayed on in New York through New Year (century, millennium, whatever), which was also spectacular as we joined Amy’s cousins who had cleared out their penthouse apartment for a quiet gathering of about 150 of their closest friends.  We had a few days in UK on the way home which gave Amy a chance to meet Sarah and family.  So, last holiday season had proper winter weather and gloomy evenings to offset the tinsel.  This year Amy has her first Aussie Xmas – in fact her first ever not in New York.  She’ll find it a bit more “mellow” …  it’s hard to get excited about Xmas lights and Santa when the sky is blue, sun shining, and it’s 35-40C in the shade.  

The year went on to see some welcome consolidation in Simon’s job.  This time last year (again) I was on the look out for new opportunities, and even went to a couple of interviews in the US.  None of the leads were followed through to completion, for various reasons.  Looking back I now can see that some unease that I felt when looking was vindicated by the tech crash that transpired.  But the best reason was that I developed a new project at CSIRO that struck a chord with in the private sector organisations, who are now supporting it through sponsorship.  Enough to make me very secure at CSIRO for a year or two at least.  But better still, the project has a profile both domestically and internationally that looks likely to lead onto a variety of other opportunities.  One measure is that through a recent healthy travel schedule, most of my fares have been paid by the people inviting me.  Now while that may be normal for a consultant, “academics” are more used to budgeting these things into projects as expenses.  

Amy has also had a much more fulfilling year professionally, not without its frustrations, but ending up in a distinctly healthy place.  The first nine months she had a contract with the Western Australian Council of Social Services to organise their biennial conference.  WACOSS is the peak body coordinating lobbying, policy and education for the welfare and voluntary sector – nicely fitting her professional experience from New York. The down-side is that – apparently like too many organisations in the sector (see last year’s experience with the YWCA) – it is poorly managed and therefore highly frustrating.  Anyway, despite various hiccups and conflicts, the conference was a success.  In particular, the high-profile keynote speaker from the US that Amy procured through her personal contacts was a big hit – he got loads of attention in the press and broadcast media and made an important contribution to one policy debate in Australia.  But when the dust settled Amy was happy to move on.  

After a competitive selection procedure she got appointed as an organiser with the delightfully named Liquor, Hospitality, and Miscellaneous Workers Union – known informally as “the Misso’s”.  Refreshingly, the Misso’s take themselves seriously, staff pulling in the same direction – in fact it is a bit of a “movement” job, which is basically fine.  Amy is working in a team organising in the private health and aged-care sector.  The focus is recruitment and assisting members with grievances, etc.  But the other interesting thing about the Misso’s is that they are pretty much a factory for Labor politicians – two or three of her colleagues are expecting to enter state parliament at the next election, and their backing for a couple of other campaigns will be important.  Amy’s application to the place was certainly not harmed by an unsolicited, glowing, testimonial from a previous Misso who is a current MP, who Amy had got to know when struggling to find the right slot last year.  The work involves plenty of site visits, so it was very timely that Amy moved from L to P (i.e. passed driving test) just two weeks shy of her 40th birthday.  Good stuff, and another valuable step in turning this New Yorker into something of a Aussie.  

Away from work we had a healthy year travelling.  The highlight was definitely 2 weeks in the Pilbara in May/June.  Amy wrote a great account of that, with pictures, so rather than repeating, I’ll attach that at the end of this missive.  Then we burnt a few frequent flier points on trips to Melbourne/Canberra, and Sydney.  

On the first trip we hooked up with good buddy Annmarie and drove up to Kelly-country (i.e. Ned) and the Rutherglen wine district in northeast Victoria, before spending a couple of days exploring/revisiting Melbourne itself, and then had a day in Canberra on the way back (don’t look at the map to check the logic of that statement).  In Canberra we got treated to a VIP tour of Parliament, thanks to connections of a friend of Amy’s from WACOSS.  Mind-you, it was kinda wierd – while we thought we were going to get a look behind the scenes into the  famous “smoke-filled-rooms” where all the decisions get made, the guide was more concerned to explain to us about the architecture and decorations, and appeared to be uninterested in the real function of the place.  

The trip to Sydney was timed to allow us to surprise Simon’s brother Richard at his 40th birthday celebration, and also for us to hook up with Amy’s mother and step-father (Beryl and Hal) who visited for 2 ½ weeks.  After a quick weekend doing Sydney we brought them on to Perth and generally showed them as much of our life here as we could pack into a small time.  It was lovely for Amy to be able to share this stuff with her closest family - her first visitors to come from the US.  We did the predictable things – a trip down to our friend’s shack at Margaret River, winery and gallery visits, BBQ in our backyard.  And much time discussing and anticipating the next big event.  

Which is: the forthcoming expansion of the Bachrach/Cox clan.  Yes, we’re pregnant – now just about 18 weeks.  Due date is late May, and it is an exciting, slightly daunting prospect.  Amy’s pregnancy has been delightfully easy to date – a little nausea and increased tiredness, but otherwise she’s been able to carry on as normal.  We actually found out the same day that she was offered the job at the Misso’s, which was mildly disorienting, but once we passed 12 weeks and Amy fessed up she has been delighted at the response (though she will not qualify for maternity leave).  We have checked out the various facilities and options, and are currently booked in through the public system, and if everything stays smooth the action will be at the (midwife-run) Family Birth Centre attached to the main maternity hospital in WA – which happens to be in Subiaco only about 2 km away.  We’ve been very pleased with the treatment that we’ve received there until now, and have been supplementing it with Saturday morning sessions at a yoga/gab session at the (very hippy) Family Nurturing Centre in Mosman Park.  The latter is particularly useful for making contact with other expectant couples, a significant number of whom are in a similar situation to us (i.e. mature migrants with no local family).  Watch this space.

Since I’m only writing this a week before Xmas you’ll probably not get it until closer to new year.  My excuse is that the last month was very disrupted.  I got poorly, while on a business trip, in State College Pennsylvania (it’s a town, actually – the home of Penn. State Uni.) which pretty much trashed the rest of the trip, just struggling out of bed to  “sing for my supper” giving a lecture in London for the folks paying the air-fare!  Despite visiting quacks in US and UK the cause was not diagnosed until I saw our mate Chris back here who spotted Mycoplasma Pneumonia.  No wonder I felt crook – about as bad as I can remember – and the unavoidable interspersed air travel didn’t help.  I’m now mostly recovered, though will take it gently for another few weeks.  

So that’s our news.  Hope yours is also good, and that 2001 is better still.  
