# _28 Brighton Street, Leederville, W.A. 6007_

Friends: How to tell it?  A huge year, beginning and ending with dress-up!  

New Year in Perth was good omen.  Mark and Carolyn and Karen and Janis and I booked to go to a “Glam” party in town.  We dolled ourselves up, and generally had a good time, finally leaving our third club around 4 a.m.  Courtesy of a final stop for coffee (herb-tea in my case) I saw in the dawn of 1999 quite thoroughly.  

Then Amy arrived, on 14th January, just in time for my big one on 16th.  The Australian Consulate in Washington D.C. had done us proud, processing Amy’s visa application in just two months, but given the forest of trees that we had caused to be felled to provide paper for all the documents they required, very well earned.  She landed proudly clutching the document, which carefully stated that the visa was issued on condition that she was not married when she entered Australia, that she get married before September 8th, and that the person she was to marry was S. J. D. Cox of Leederville etc.  Cool.  

But before her jetlag was over, there was some other time-dependent business to deal with.  We celebrated my 40th birthday itself with a trip to the circus.  But taking advantage of Australia Day long weekend, the next weekend we took a house in Quindalup by the beach in the south-west, and had a big bash with about 15 mates.  The instruction was to “dress something beginning with S” and pretty much everyone obliged – we had a swinger, sequins, seminarian, soldier, silver, snorkel, sunflower, Soeharto, and I slipped my underpants over a sleek full leotard of Amy’s and did Superman!  A really nice celebration, and great way to bring Amy into my community (photos of this and other key events available at http://www.ned.dem.csiro.au/CoxSimon/private/ ).

Next big thing was Easter over east.  After a business trip to Canberra, Amy flew and joined me in Sydney where we had a quick visit with Richard and his family before driving up through NSW to the Byron Bay Blues Festival.  Our route took in some of the prettiest country in NSW through New England.  We got leeched in Dorrigo, had our Passover Seder at an Indian restaurant in Nimbin (the main remaining holdout of hippiedom in Australia), and made sure to check out the Big Banana in Coffs Harbour.  At Byron we managed to rendezvous more-or-less successfully with our cohort – Mark and Carolyn over from Perth, Terence and Annmarie up from Melbourne, and Richard, Caroline and kids up from Sydney.  The festival itself was a mixed affair – it rained for about 2 ½ of the four days, and the ground-staff were ill-prepared, so the mud was ankle deep by day three.  Pretty much de-rigeur for a music festival really I s’pose.  But the music was great – Dr John enthralled us on two successive nights, Keb’ Mo’ charmed, R L Burnside kept things throbbing.  Paul Kelly managed to play four sets one day in differing configurations.  Plenty of other highlights – pretty much inevitable with 12 hours music on 4 stage each of 4 days - though Taj Mahal was a little disappointing as he chose to focus on his “hula-blues” and had a band which featured three (yes THREE) ukeleles!  A post-festival drive down to Ballina to re-visit the Big Prawn pretty much topped it off, though.  

The Easter trip meant we missed the date that we’d provisionally booked (for visa purposes) to marry.  So we re-scheduled a mid-winter (!) affair 23rd June.  We planned it low-key, trying to treat it as an administrative formality in a time-frame over which we had little control.  But as it got closer we decided to party a bit, as this was our chance to do something with our friends “at home”.  We had the last time-slot at the registry-office on a Wednesday and then hot-footed it over to a bar called Fuel for drinks.  About 40 friends came along to one component or other or both.  We managed to write some neat vows, chose some great readings, and got congratulated all round.  I heard later that the celebrant at the registry office thought it was one of the nicest and most original ones that he’d done.  And the sun shone of course.  

My parents came and visited for two weeks in September.  They were dying to meet Amy of course, and she them.  This was also ideal wild-flower time - for all its aridity and poor soils, W.A. has one of the richest floras in the world, so July through October each year Western Australians make pilgrimages into the local bush as the peak of the flowering travels north to south through the season.  We all took a long weekend to the Porongorups (granite hills) and Stirling Range (sandstone hills) in the south and were not disappointed.  Amy also took mum and dad to a day at the Perth Royal (Agricultural) Show and we all went along to the Grand Final of the state footy (Aussie rules) competition which was a hoot.  Big success.  

Spring has seen me on the road a lot.  Mid-year the funding for a big project I’d been working on for several years got cancelled – a rather disappointing reward for some hard work, with the funds being re-directed to projects which were falling behind on their deliverables.  As a consequence I’m looking at future possibilities, and conference appearances are a good way of getting the word out.  So since mid-October I’ve been to Sydney, Bathurst (country NSW), Frankfurt, Gold Coast (Qld), Brisbane and Canberra.  A two-week consultancy in Melbourne is scheduled for the New Year, with the possibility of a longer-term arrangement there.  And I’m also going to a couple of interview in the U.S. just prior to Xmas.  

Which brings us to this end of the year.  Yesterday we got up early to put Amy on a plane to New York.  I leave on Wednesday to join her, and on Sunday 19th December we’ll have our second winter wedding of the year – this one the big, Jewish, family gig.  Mostly Amy’s of course, though my parents are making the trip, and I’ve sneaked a few old US buddies onto the swollen guest list.  As this event is not so discreet we’ve spent plenty of weekends recently hunting the boutiques of Perth for those perfect outfits.  We’ve done pretty well, and should even be able to use them again sometime (i.e. no meringue look!)  We stay in NYC through New Year, and (Y2K bug willing) will stop off briefly in UK on our way back, so Amy can complete her survey of the people who substantially share my genes.  

Back in Perth our delightful kitty Iko (a.k.a. Professor Shorthair) will be well tended by our neighbour and some buddies who will house-sit part of the time.  And for Amy her almost-perfect job awaits, at WACOSS (W.A. Council on Social Services – a non-profit that does lobbying, research & consulting – Amy is organising their May 2000 conference).  She had tough year employment-wise (with predictable budget pressures resulting) which saw her in just two short temp jobs in the first five months, before penetrating the inner sanctum of the (Labor Party) leader-of-the-opposition’s office (called LOOP …) mid-year.  She moved to a depressing few months trying to run two programs for the YWCA – who clearly did not really want to, despite receiving government grants for them – before being “spotted” by a consultant from WACOSS who she had brought in to help out, and who promptly hired her away – phew!  

So, what does the future hold?  Difficult to tell – I’ve now been in my current office longer than I’ve inhabited any other in my career, so perhaps the time is ripe.  But not much on offer in Perth that would use my tremendous, if rather arcane, skills.  Great though they are, electronic communications are no substitute for f2f, and those of most of my current colleagues in my work area are a long way away.  But we are nicely settled here, in a great community, mezuzah’s front and back (!), and you can’t beat the weather or the beach!  Whatever it is, we’re looking forward to it together.  

Happy Xmas and New Year.
